---
layout: post
title: 'Year review'
subtitle: 'What I learned and one during 2022'
date: 2023-01-01
author: 'Jiali'
header-img: 'img/post-bg-react.png'
tags:
  - React
  - Frontend
---
I started my first job in 2022 after completeing my CS degree. I had three projects this year. I will roughly review my work in 2022.  

## Warm up
My first task is to help with a simple application that register and input verification code. It's simple and more like a warm up project for onboarding.  


## Interesting project
After that I worked on a [WebRTC](https://webrtc.org/) project. I researched two approaches to build a React web application for video connection. It was using Socket.io and Firebase. It was fun as this is my first time working on WebRTC. However, the project was cancelled due to the stackholder decided to postpone this project.  


## A good start
Then I join a project for Pet Plan web app. The web application was about to finish but was still missing some key components. They redesigned those parts and added new features. I took over a left member's work, which mainly was the payment sections. They used [Stripe](https://stripe.com/docs/stripe-js/react) for the payment. The project was quite smooth. They use Sass for the styling and pure HTML. So styling was fairly easy. I only need to make sure pages match their Figma design. So my focus was refactoring React components. The legacy code was a little messy. I created shared components and reconstructed the credit card section. It includes add credit card, validation credit card, save credit card, handle expiration and delete credit card. I also need to check APIs, read API docs, and integrate with the UI. Besides, I have to read the Stripe React js doc to use Stripe elements. Overall, it was not hard. The project was hand over to the client in 2 months.  

## The Key Project
The next project started from scratch. I learned a lot from it. I mainly worked on the frontend tasks but also participated in some backend tasks. I learned a lot in this project. This project continues in 2023.

### Frontend
- React 18
- React Table   
    - customized components such as table, pagination, accordion, accordion inside accordion, a table in a table and mui Indeterminate checkbox in the table
- MUI
    - Customized components such as drawers
    - Autocomplete with chips, accordion, position menu
- Formik dynamic forms
    - building re-useable components
    - resolve the lagging issue of rendering big forms using Formik 
    - create complex forms that dynamically generates from API response with values 
    - validation on Yup schemes: multiple dependent fields 
    - store values in redux and update form fields, fields calculations and summary on pages, 
    - handle RESTFUL API calls 
    
- Redux
    - create Redux slice and reducer
    - use RTK Query to handle API calls
- API
    - communicating with the data team and backend team to forge API response, request format
- Storybook for customized components
- Test
    - Unit test
    - Integration test

Backend
- Build access control middleware using role-acl
- Help refactor and fix bugs

Overall, 2022 is a good start. I enjoy my work and projects. I also enjoy working with my colleagues in my company.  I learned a lot from senior developers and supervisors. It was fun. I wish the same for my 2023